[Music]
think you know what lurks in the depths
of the ocean well nearly 95% of our
oceans haven't been explored yet it's
not hard to let your imagination run
wild but thanks to brave explorers
deep-sea cameras and awesome
archaeologists we do know about some
pretty incredible sea creatures living
in our waters today and millions of
years ago from the 9-foot spider crab to
the 60-foot prehistoric Megalodon these
sea dwellers come in all shapes and
sizes
sharks thanks to horror flicks like the
Meg and the timeless classic Jaws it's
no secret that sharks are super big and
scary but did you know there are sharks
that could fit right inside the palm of
your hand according to National
Geographic one of the smallest shark
scientists know about is called the
dwarf lanternshark and they're an
adorable adorable seven to eight inches
long at this size it's no surprise that
these little guys are rarely seen which
is why scientists don't know too much
about them they've been observed a
handful of times off the northern tip of
South America and have organs called
photo spores that literally light up
these help them blend in with the
sunlight hitting the water when they
come to the surface looking for prey
while the ocean is home to a shark as
tiny as the dwarf lanternshark it's also
home to the biggest shark of modern
times
the whale shark this creature is not
only a massive shark but is the largest
known fish species alive according to
National Geographic like many whales
this massive shark is a filter feeder
and move slowly in the water an average
adult whale shark can grow as long as a
school bus typically they can grow
anywhere from 33 feet to 40 feet and
sometimes they can reach a whopping 60
feet in length while these sharks have
somewhat smaller teeth and many other
sharks living in the ocean they can't
have a mouth full around 3,000 teeth as
an adult I wonder what kind of
toothbrush they have to use do they
floss but even the whale shark isn't the
biggest shark known to humans if the
entire shark species were a kingdom the
prehistoric Megalodon would be the ruler
of the sea
Megalodon roamed the ocean a long time
ago Oh about fifteen point nine to two
point six million years back between the
early Miocene and late pliocene eras
well they've long been extinct people
are still amazed to learn about these
gigantic sea beasts Megalodon could
reach anywhere between 45 to 60 feet in
length with jaws more than six feet wide
a fossil of a tooth that once belonged
to a Megalodon measured in at 7 inches
needless to say I'm pretty stoked that
these guys have long been extinct Oh
marine reptiles many of the oceans
reptiles existed long before humans
roamed the earth a number of these now
extinct marine reptiles resembled
dinosaurs with scaly skin and Tails they
didn't have gills like fish did and
couldn't breathe underwater there were
five main groups of reptiles that roamed
the sea in the past
Natha saurus plio saurus plio saurus
Athiya sores and Mosasaurus try saying
all those ten times fast
well I don't have enough time to
describe all these prehistoric marine
reptiles there are a few worth comparing
so you can understand their vast
diversity when it came to size
Shauna Soros lived on earth during the
Late Triassic period about 215 million
years ago
shox just missed it archeologists named
them shonisaurus thanks to the fossils
they found near the Shoshone Mountains
in Nevada
after studying their fossils
archeologists believe these prehistoric
reptiles grew to be about 50 feet long
and weighed about 60,000 pounds a t-rex
supposedly rade around 18,000 pounds to
give you a little perspective whoo but
not all marine reptiles were massive
like the shonisaurus meet opted almost
or ik reptile thrived during the late
Jurassic period and lived in oceans all
over the world up Thelma Soros we'd
somewhere around 6000 pounds and grew to
approximately 16 feet long according to
new dinosaurs calm that's about the same
length as the beluga whale that exists
today it's too bad these guys went
extinct before we had a chance to see
them ourselves as their cartoonish wide
eyes and dolphin-like features are
pretty darn cute of course the up vamos
horas evolved over time to become
ophthalmologists or eye doctors that we
know today no that's a lie
just testing you another marine reptile
that lived during the Jurassic period
was known as Leo plura died they are
believed to have been very fast-moving
similar to a great white shark a more
aggressive marine reptile these
carnivorous sea beasts weighed about
five thousand pounds and grew to around
30 feet long with a 5 foot long skull
packed with razor-sharp teeth these guys
meant business
they also had flippers that enable them
to move incredibly swiftly through the
water maybe even swimming as fast as a
shark at around 25 miles per hour
Wow glad I don't have to worry about
these things on my next summer vacation
at the beach one of the smaller
prehistoric marine reptiles also live
during the Jurassic period around 200 to
190 million years ago 'ok theo soros
these guys only grew to about 6 feet
which would have put them at the same
height as a guy who was slightly taller
than average today fun fact about these
guys similar to humans they gave birth
to their young live and not in the form
of eggs and since they couldn't breathe
underwater like other reptile
their babies came out tail first so they
wouldn't drown how thoughtful
whales can you guess which living
species of whale is the largest well
it's not the Orca but that's a good
guess the Orca also known as the killer
whale is a toothed whale and can grow to
anywhere from 23 to 32 feet which is
slightly smaller than a school bus how
about the narwhal no they're not the
biggest either these unicorns of the sea
live mainly in Arctic waters and only
grow 13 to 20 feet in length and that's
including their 9 inch tusks that puts
them at a slightly longer length than
the aforementioned Leo plura died tired
of guessing ok I give in the largest
whale that still exists today is the
blue whale you knew that at a
jaw-dropping 82 to 105 feet the blue
whale is not only the biggest wheel we
know of but is currently the largest
animal to have ever lived on earth
seriously
these animals are bigger than a t-rex
and even the prehistoric Megalodon if
you were to put a blue whale next to a
school bus it would look like it could
swallow it think about that according to
the National Geographic a blue whale's
tongue can weigh the same as an elephant
and their hearts can weight as much as a
car that doesn't even sound possible
it's no wonder these giants need to eat
about 4 tons of krill every day well
there aren't too many animals living
today that can compete with the blue
whales epic proportions
there is an entirely different species
that is a good contender and it's not
quite what you would expect
it's a jellyfish now I'm not talking
about the little jellyfish that wash up
on the shore and ruin a perfectly good
day at the beach I'm referring to the
lion's mane jellyfish the biggest
jellyfish around this invertebrate can
grow up to 120 feet long they also come
in different gorgeous colors like red
purple or even shades of orange
and as if their length wasn't impressive
the lion's mane jellyfish boasts a
whopping eight sets of 70 to 150
tentacles that means they can have up to
1,200 in total holy cow I mean holy
jellyfish and while the lion's mane
jellyfish and the blue whale are yet to
be beaten for the longest sea creature
there is one marine creature that can
grow even larger in length the
Portuguese Man O'War tentacles and all
can reach a length of 165 feet long and
that's according to Mental Floss calm
well this thing may look a lot like a
jellyfish is actually known as a
siphonophore and there are hundreds and
sometimes thousands of them that are
genetically identical their long
tentacles help the organism catch prey
and its sting is fatal to most animals
even humans in some cases what's even
creepier is that if one of the tentacles
comes off the organism for whatever
reason it can float around the water for
days before decomposing even if it's
detached this tentacle can still sting
you but don't go running out of the
ocean just yet your chances of being
killed by a Portuguese Man O'War sting
are pretty slim however if you do get
stung the side effects aren't pretty
with welts stomach cramps and elevated
heart rate and an upset stomach well you
don't want to go anywhere near these
long creatures they sure are pretty to
look at check out all those colors so
which of these sea creatures surprised
you the most give us your thoughts in
the comment section don't forget to give
this video a like share it with your
friends and click Subscribe stay on the
bright side
[Music]